so welcome to part three of the
sculpting series in the first two
tutorials we basically went over some
sculpting theory and we created this
base mesh so in this tutorial I'm gonna
start sculpting with these brushes so
what I'm going to do is I'm just gonna
go to sculpt subdivide my mesh again
creates the sculpting tag you can add a
few more levels of subdivision like this
I think of five should do it right so
the most commonly used brush in
sculpting will be this brush here is
called a pool brush and I'm just going
to run through some of the settings in
this brush so firstly we've got these
three very important settings link size
pressure and symmetry up here now these
are important because if you check link
size basically all these brushes are
gonna take the settings from this brush
this is very useful especially if you're
dealing with symmetry you don't want to
keep going into every single brush and
turning on symmetry you just want to do
it once and then that's it so I'm just
gonna link symmetry and even link
pressure that's fine now when I come
over to this object you'll notice this
orange circle and this is basically the
brush size and if you look in the middle
you'll see a curve and that is actually
the fall-off curve so that is basically
this curve continued inside of the
orange icon which is pretty clever so if
I adjust this fall-off that you'll
notice that orange curve changes as well
I'm just gonna reset that go back to
settings now making a brush stroke is
very simple you just simply click and
drag and that basically pulls out the
geometry if you want to push the
geometry just hold down control and now
we're basically indenting or pushing
and the the middle mouse is very useful
as well so if I just click middle mouse
and drag sideways that does the brush
size like this and if I move up and down
while holding down the middle Mouse that
will do pressure which is that a line
with the circle so that is pressure you
can see it moving on the right hand side
there and if you hold down shift you can
actually smooth the brushstroke so that
is quite handy because it kind of stops
us from having to go to the actual
smooth brush which is located here the
iron so I'm just going to increase the
pressure
oops that then hold down shift to smooth
these bumps and you can see it's
smoothing increase the pressure here
so no need to really go over to smooth
now as I mentioned there's a symmetry
option which is something you'll want to
set at the beginning so you'll want to
check link symmetry and then come here
to the symmetry tab and you'll want to
choose a symmetry plane so I'm just
gonna try Y Zed X Y Zed here and that is
not the symmetry I need so I'm just
gonna uncheck that it's not this one
either and this is it
basically any change I apply to this
side I want it to map it over to the
other side so if I just kind of draw a
brushstroke here it automatically maps
to the other side and now because I set
linked symmetry if I come to another
brush say knife that's automatically
picking up the same symmetry options as
well which is very handy I'm just gonna
undo these strokes now lastly if I just
go back to the pool brush in settings
we've got these FX options and these are
actually very cool if I just choose FX
for the size brush here we've got this
all these kind of different options and
I'm just gonna choose distance and
choose a curve like this just a linear
curve now if I get okay and then draw a
brushstroke
you'll notice that the brushstroke is
now tapering it gets smaller depending
on distance
can you draw Direction some randomness
and now we've got these kind of strange
little effects so I'm not going to go
through every single FX option but just
so you know they exist
so now that we learnt about the brush
basics in the next lesson I can actually
start to begin sculpting my 3d object so
that's the end of part 3 and thanks for
watching